[20 Marks each]

Unit 1 Introduction to Entrepreneurship

1.  (x 1) Briefly trace the evolution of entrepreneurship from various schools of thoughts.

2.  (x 2) What are the different types of entrepreneurship ? Discuss / Which entrepreneurship do you feel is most suitable for India ? Justify.

3.  (x 1) Discuss the basic theories of entrepreneurship. Explain any two theories with relevant examples.


Unit 2 Entrepreneurial Competencies

4.  (x 1) What is Competence ? Explain various types of Entrepreneurial Competencies.

5.  (x 1) What are the key competencies that differentiate an entrepreneur from a regular business owner ? How do they contribute in the success of a start-up ?


Unit 3 Dimensions of Entrepreneurship

6.  (x 1) What is a Group Entrepreneurship ? Explain various type of Group Entrepreneurship.

7.  (x 2) What is Women Entrepreneurship ? Explain the various dimensions / Discuss the significance of women entrepreneurship in achieving women empowerment.
    (x 1) Discuss the different government schemes initiated for the development of women entrepreneurs in India.

8.  (x 1) What is Techno-entrepreneurship ? Describe the programmes of Techno-entrepreneurship initiated by the various government departments.


Unit 4 Entrepreneurship and Government Policies

9.  (x 1) Why do Government policy regulations need a proper administrative and institutional setup ? Explain.

10. (x 1) Describe the important schemes launched by Government of India to promote MSME sector.


Unit 5 Entrepreneurship and Economic Development

11. (x 1) Explain the concept behind formation of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). Describe its characteristics and relevance.

12. (x 1) What is the role of entrepreneurship in economic development of a nation ?

13. (x 1) Suppose you are a small entrepreneur, what problems do you feel you have to face for the successful establishment of an enterprise ? Suggest how these problems can be overcome.


Unit 6 Identification of a Business Idea/Opportunity

14. (x 2) Briefly explain how a business model is selected and validated / What do you mean by a 'Business Model' ? Discuss with a suitable example.

15. (x 1) Imagine you have an idea for a new Smartphone app. How would you go about conducting market research to validate the demand for your app before investing time and resources on its development ?

16. (x 1) What are different sources of generating new ideas ? Which one of them do you consider the best ? Explain.

17. (x 1) What are the advantages and disadvantages of market research ? What methods are used for conducting market research ?


Unit 7 Financing an Enterprise

18. (x 1) What are the sources of finance in business enterprise ? Discuss.

19. (x 1) Discuss the concept of 'Bootstrapping' in entrepreneurship. What are its advantages and challenges ? How can it be helpful in funding the startups ?

20. (x 1) What is Angel investment ? Discuss the investment approach of Angel investors with suitable examples.

21. (x 1) What is venture capital ? How is it different from angel investment ? Discuss in brief the Venture Capital Investment Process.


Unit 8 Evaluating and Preparing Business Plan

22. (x 1) How does technical feasibility analysis analyze the technological aspects of the proposed business idea ?

23. (x 1) What is a business plan ? Discuss the various elements of a business plan.

24. [Short Note] (x 1) Technical Analysis of a business idea

25. [Short Note] (x 1) PESTEL Model

26. (x 1) What do you mean by cost of capital ? Why is it important in the starting phase of a start-up ?

27. (x 1) Write a note on Porter's five force model, with an example.

28. (x 1) What are the major components of environmental analysis ? Explain any two .


Unit 9 Implementing Business Plan

29. (x 1) What are the factors which determine the location decisions of an enterprise ? Discuss.

30. (x 1) What is a Business Plan ? Discuss the common errors in business plan formulation.


Unit 10 Managing the Enterprise

31. (x 1) How are financial functions of an enterprise managed with special reference to identification of financial needs and negotiations with venture capitalists ? Discuss.

32. (x 1) You are a student who wants to start a part-time tuition service. What strategies would you use to determine the pricing for your tuition classes, taking into account factors such as market competition and the value you offer ?

33. (x 1) Why is marketing important for entrepreneurs ? Differentiate between product and service marketing.

34. (x 1) You have decided to open a local book store. How will you use social media and other online platforms to build a strong online presence and attract customers to your physical store ?


Unit 11 Social Entrepreneurship

35. (x 1) What is Social Entrepreneurship ? Explain the four major elements of social entrepreneurship.

36. (x 1) Suppose you are a social entrepreneur. Identify a social issue around you. Explain how innovatively you will resolve the social problem.

37. (x 1) Explain the concept of social entrepreneurship. Differentiate between social entrepreneurship and corporate entrepreneurship.

38. (x 1) What are the major characteristics of social entrepreneurs ? Discuss the present scenario of social entrepreneurship in India.


Unit 12 Rural Entrepreneurship

39. (x 1) Describe Rural Entrepreneurship in India. Explain the four basic forms of rural entrepreneurship.

40. (x 1) Explain the role of rural entrepreneurship in promoting women's empowerment. What are the challenges faced by women entrepreneurs in a rural setup ?

41. (x 1) What do you understand by Rural Entrepreneurship ? Briefly describe the various government's endeavours to facilitate the rural entrepreneurship.


Unit 13 Ethical Entrepreneurship

42. (x 1) Explain the major theories which revolve around ethics and determine ethical behaviour.


Unit 14 Cultural Governance and Family Business

43. (x 2) Discuss the positive and negative side of family business / How is it different from other forms of business and what are the challenges faced ? Explain how family business can become viable.

44. (x 1) What are the common problems which family businesses have to confront ? Discuss the coping strategies followed by family businesses.
