[20 Marks each]

Unit 1 Dynamics of International Business

1.  (x 1) Distinguish between domestic and international business and highlight the importance of international business.
    (x 1) Discuss the importance of international business.
    (x 1) Explain the benefits of international business. Why do firms go international ? Discuss in brief.

2.  (x 1) Which major forces shape International Business Management ? Discuss.

3. [Short Note] (x 1) Benefits of International Business

4. [Short Note] (x 1) Challenges faced in international business

5. [Short Note] (x 1) Major reasons for firms going international


Unit 2 Globalization and Evolving Paradigm

6.  (x 1) Discuss the evolving paradigm of globalization in the context of geo-economic and geo-strategic developments in the world economy.
    (x 1) Briefly discuss the evolving paradigm of globalisation.

7.  (x 1) Discuss the effects of globalization on International Business. Give suitable examples.

8. [Short Note] (x 1) Effects of globalization

9. [Short Note] (x 1) E-Commerce


Unit 3 International Business Environment : An Overview

10. (x 1) Describe the elements of international business environment and discuss how a country's political environment influences the operations of business both domestically and internationally.

11. (x 1) Examine the impact of technological, ecological and legal environment on international business.

12. (x 1) What the differences existing between various international markets in terms of legal legislations and their compliance requirements ? Discuss.

13. [Short Note] (x 1) Ecological Environment

14. [Short Note] (x 1) Environmental scanning

15. [Short Note] (x 1) Impact of Environmental Trends


Unit 4 Trade Theories

16. (x 1) Discuss the Foreign Direct Investment theories.
    (x 1) Explain the importance of international trade theories and discuss the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) theories.

17. [Short Note] (x 1) The Leontiff Paradox

18. [Short Note] (x 1) Theory of comparative cost advantage

19. [Short Note] (x 1) The Eclectic Paradigm


Unit 5 WTO Agreements

20. (x 2) Briefly examine/discuss the key agreements of World Trade Organization / WTO.

21. (x 1) Elaborate on the role of trade agreements in the operation of foreign businesses.

22. (x 1) What are the different modes of Supply of Services in Foreign Trade ? Illustrate giving examples.

23. [Short Note] (x 1) Distinction between GATT and WTO

24. [Short Note] (x 1) General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS)


Unit 6 Regional Trade Blocs

25. (x 1) Discuss various types of trade blocs. What are the benefits of regional trade blocs ? Explain.

26. (x 1) What is the role of European Union in International Business ? Explain giving suitable examples.

27. [Short Note] (x 2) Benefits of trade blocs


Unit 7 International Entry Strategies

28. (x 1) What are the mechanisms through which firms enter into foreign markets ? Explain giving examples.
    (x 1) What are the modes of entry into international markets ? Discuss the factors influencing entry modes.

29. (x 1) Discuss the theories of Internationalization.

30. [Short Note] (x 1) International joint ventures


Unit 8 Organizational Structures

31. (x 2) Discuss various/different types of organisational structures and highlight the characteristics of global functional structure (and its advantages and disadvantages).

32. [Short Note] (x 1) Transnational Structure

33. [Short Note] (x 1) Hybrid Structure


Unit 9 Strategic Alliances

34. (x 2) Discuss/Explain the concept of strategic alliances in detail. What are the types of strategic alliances and what are the sources of value creation in an alliance ?
    (x 1) What is the strategic value of alliances ? Describe with the help of examples.

35. (x 1) Discuss in detail stages of alliance formation.

36. [Short Note] (x 2) Strategic alliances


Unit 10 International Marketing

37. (x 3) Distinguish/Differentiate between domestic and international marketing (giving suitable examples) and explain the international marketing mix (with the help of examples).

38. (x 2) Discuss/Examine the key drivers and challenges in international marketing.

39. (x 1) Selection of channels of distribution in international marketing. Explain the steps for successful exporting.
    (x 1) How does an organization select International Markets ? Describe the different channels of distribution and mechanism to select prospective buyers.

40. (x 2) Why is market research important for international business ? / Significance of market research.

41. [Short Note] (x 1) International consumer behaviour

42. [Short Note] (x 1) Reasons for entering International Markets


Unit 11 International Finance

43. (x 1) What do you understand by global financial system ? Discuss the foreign exchange market in detail.
    (x 1) Explain Global Financial Systems and discuss its impact on International Business.

44. (x 1) Briefly discuss the terms of payment of international trade.

45. (x 1) How do businesses use risk mitigation techniques in international business management ? Discuss.

46. [Short Note] (x 1) International Cash Flows

47. [Short Note] (x 1) Global financial system

48. [Short Note] (x 1) Balance of Payments (BoP)

49. [Short Note] (x 1) Types of Foreign Investment


Unit 12 International Operations & Logistics Management

50. (x 1) What do you understand by the term International Operations Management ? Discuss the strategic issues in international operations management.

51. (x 2) Discuss international logistics management and explain in detail the relationship between marketing management and logistics management.

52. (x 1) Why is management of supply chain vital for international business management ? Discuss.

53. [Short Note] (x 1) Supply chain modelling


Unit 13 International Human Resource Management

54. (x 1) Define international human resource management and its scope and explain in detail the role and nature of international human resource management.
    (x 1) Discuss the role of International Human Resource Management (IHRM) in global business.

55. (x 1) What are the factors involved in expatriate selection and describe the advantages and disadvantages in using expatriates.

56. (x 1) Briefly discuss expatriate training and development.

57. (x 1) Briefly discuss expatriate performance appraisal.

58. (x 1) Briefly discuss the cross-cultural issues in international HRM.

59. (x 1) What are the objectives of international compensation and approaches used for international compensation ?

60. [Short Note] (x 2) International compensation
