[20 Marks each]

Unit 1 An Overview of Retail Sector

1.  (x 1) Discuss the role, scope and importance of retailing and its contribution to the Indian economy.
    (x 1) Discuss the importance of retailing and its role in Indian economy. How is Urban Retailing different from Rural Retailing ?

2.  (x 1) Explain the term 'Retailing' with an example.
    (x 1) What is retailing ? Explain with a suitable example how a retailer plays the role of an intermediary in the distribution of goods and services to the end customers.
    (x 1) 'Retailing includes all activities involved in selling goods and services to consumers.' Discuss the statement with reference to the two types of traditional retail formats that you are familiar with.

3. Critically discuss the key growth drivers impacting retail business in India.

4. Explain the terms traditional retail, modern retail and rural retail. Discuss their features, scope and future growth prospects.

5. What are the major challenges faced by Indian Retail Industry ? Explain rural retailing and the rural retail formats you are familiar with.

6. [Short Note] (x 1) Emerging Rural Retail Formats

7. [Short Note] (x 1) Online retailers


Unit 2 Concepts of Retailing

8. Explain the term new/emerging customer. Why is it essential for retailers to have a sound knowledge of these set of buyers ? Highlight their emerging pattern of consumer behaviour in the era of Omni channel retailing.

9. [Short Note] (x 1) SCM (Supply Chain Management)

10. [Short Note] (x 1) Brick and Click model of retailing

11. [Short Note] (x 1) Types of Retail Store Layouts


Unit 3 Retail Environment

12. Discuss the legal framework of Retail Business in India as a part of Retail Environment.

13. [Short Note] (x 1) Retail store as a social entity

14. [Short Note] (x 1) Ethical considerations in Retailing


Unit 4 Strategic Retail Planning Process

15. What is strategic planning process ? Explain the four possible planning approaches that retailers can consider.

16. Discuss your understanding of performance audit in the context of retail business. Explain commonly used performance management frameworks for the same.

17. Discuss different strategies that can be considered by a retail firm at the corporate level, while doing strategic planning.


Unit 5 Models of Retailing

18.  (x 1) Elucidate the concept of wheel of retailing. Discuss the different phases involved in the wheel of retailing theory.
     (x 1) What is wheel of retailing theory ? Explain the three stage cycle of the retailing process with an example.

19.  (x 1) Explain Dialectic Process Theory of Retailing with example.
     (x 1) [Short Note] Dialectic Process Theory

20. [Short Note] (x 1) Stages in Retail Life Cycle

21. [Short Note] (x 1) Scrambled Merchandising


Unit 6 Based on Ownership

22.  (x 1) Explain the different features of a single-store independent ownership structure. Discuss with an example its advantages and limitations.
     (x 1) Why independent retailers are the most common type of retailer found everywhere ? Justify giving reasons.
     (x 1) Discuss the benefits of Independent Retailing and Chain Store Retailing.
     (x 1) Explain the characteristics of corporate chain stores. Discuss the benefits and their limitations.

23.  (x 1) Explain the term: Franchising.
     (x 1) Define franchising. Explain with a suitable example the scope and competitive advantages and disadvantages that franchising has over other business formats.
     (x 1) What is franchising in retailing ? Explain different forms of franchising with their advantages and limitations.

24. [Short Note] (x 1) Cooperatives for consumers

25. [Short Note] (x 1) Small independent mom and pop stores (favored by marketers and customers)


Unit 7 Store and Non-Store Based Retail Formats

26. Give the classification of retailers based on store formats and non-store based retailing.

27.  (x 1) What kind of retail format(s) would you consider for Chellaram's furnishings start-up keeping in view the scale of business and the quantum of the proposed 1000 crore investment ?
     (x 1) Identify and discuss non-store retail formats appropriate for Chellaram's furnishings.

28. [Short Note] (x 1) Hypermarket

29. [Short Note] (x 1) Catalogue Retailing

30. [Short Note] (x 1) Automated Vending Machine

31. [Short Note] (x 1) Off-price retailers

32. [Short Note] (x 1) Departmental store

33. [Short Note] (x 1) Supermarkets vs. Hypermarkets


Unit 8 Retail Location Strategy

34.  (x 1) What is the importance of locational decision in retailing ? What factors play a significant role in the locational choice of a retail store ?
     (x 1) Elaborate on the significance of locational decision for an upcoming construction of multiplex/single screen cinema hall in your location.

35. Describe the role of the two locational theories and retail market identification in the emerging Indian retail context.

36.  (x 1) You have been retained by a leading Digital marketing training and educational firm to represent them in various locations in tier II cities of Southern states in India. What criteria you would consider in deciding the right locations for the targeted training centers ?
     (x 1) List out and examine the various factors that impact the selection of a specific store location for: (a) charging points for e-vehicles, (b) computer training institute, (c) automatic vending machines (soft drinks), (d) 24/7 pharma retailing.

37. [Short Note] (x 1) Unplanned Markets


Unit 9 Retail Product Mix and Merchandise Strategy

38. Define Merchandising. Discuss its importance and scope in retail business. Enumerate the factors that retailers should consider while setting merchandising objectives.

39. Why deciding merchandise mix is crucial for every retail business ? Explain. As a merchandise manager, discuss the factors that you would consider in deciding merchandise mix for a competitively priced uni-sex denim brand targeting youngsters.

40. What is the difference between merchandising and cross merchandising ? Discuss the factors affecting merchandising mix decisions.

41. [Short Note] (x 1) Private Labels

42. [Short Note] (x 1) Category

43. [Short Note] (x 1) Private vs. National Brands

44. [Short Note] (x 1) Objectives of merchandising


Unit 10 Retail Pricing Strategy

45.  (x 1) Discuss retail pricing strategies that are used by organized retailers. Explain with examples.
     (x 1) Suggest retail pricing strategies that can be used in the following situations: (a) Launching a new FMCG product through Retail Store in North India, (b) Online Retailing of Shoes, (c) To take on the competition in the market, (d) To increase loyalty of consumers toward the retail store.

46. [Short Note] (x 1) Retail pricing objectives


Unit 11 Retail Communication Mix Strategy

47.  (x 1) Discuss the traditional as well as the modern elements of retail communication mix that would be relevant for a new chain of home furnishings outlets (such as Chellaram's).
     (x 1) [Short Note] Modern elements of communication mix in the context of retail


Unit 12 Physical Evidence

48.  (x 1) Define atmospherics in retailing. Why the role of planning for atmospherics is gaining importance ? Discuss the key components that a retailer should consider while planning for the atmospherics.
     (x 1) Discuss the importance of atmospherics in retail mix. Does its scope of coverage differ across small vs. big retailers ? Support your answer with examples of your choice.
     (x 1) What are the various elements of atmospherics that retailers use to attract footfalls ? Identify the elements that you would personally recommend in the following situation and why ? (a) Family restaurant, (b) Multiplex.

49.  (x 1) Discuss visual merchandising and its important components to leverage its benefits.
     (x 2) [Short Note] Visual Merchandising (in India)

50. [Short Note] (x 1) Atmospherics in the context of E-tailing

51. [Short Note] (x 1) Internal atmospherics

52. [Short Note] (x 1) Quantitative measures of retail space performance

53. [Short Note] (x 1) Atmospherics of a Retail Store


Unit 13 Managing Store Operations

54. What are the major store operations/activities performed by a retailer in the following situations: (i) A multibrand footwear retailer, (ii) Single brand retailer of white goods ?


Unit 14 Sourcing and Inventory Management

55. (x 2) How important is sourcing function and inventory management for a retailer ? Discuss the steps involved in the sourcing process and highlight the importance of each step.

56. [Short Note] (x 1) Inventory Report

57. [Short Note] (x 1) Shrinkage in retail inventory management

58. [Short Note] (x 1) Vendor Relationship Management (VRM)

59. [Short Note] (x 1) ABC Analysis for Inventory Management in Retail


Unit 15 Managing People and Processes

60. [Short Note] (x 1) 5C approach for successful people management in retail setting


Unit 16 Customer Relationship Management

61.  (x 1) Explain the term 'CRM' (Customer Relationship Management) with an example.
     (x 1) Discuss CRM (Customer Relationship Management) in retail organisations, including: (a) Objectives of CRM, (b) CRM components and their role in CRM implementation, (c) Benefits of using CRM systems.
