[20 Marks each]

Unit 1 Corporate Management : An Overview

1.  (x 1) Describe the process of corporate planning and state its benefits.

2.  (x 1) How can businesses operating in dynamic environment recognize and rank strategic opportunities ? Explain giving examples.

3.  (x 1) How does scenario planning assist businesses in navigating uncertainty ? What part does it play in strategic management ? Discuss.

4.  (x 1) In order to remain relevant in dynamic markets, how should businesses handle strategic change and transformation ? Elucidate with the help of examples.

5.  (x 1) In order to improve performance, how do businesses match their organizational culture and structure to their strategic goals ? Discuss.

6.  (x 1) Explain in what ways businesses efficiently handle their dynamic capacities to consistently adjust and react to evolving market circumstances.


Unit 2 Corporate Policy

7.  (x 1) Identify and explain the features of corporate policy. Describe the determinants of the corporate policy which influence an organization.

8.  (x 1) Define Corporate Policy and describe its characteristics.


Unit 3 Intensive Growth Strategies

9.  (x 1) What is the nature and scope of various corporate strategies which have an impact on the performance of the organization ?

10. (x 1) Evaluate the ways in which businesses strike a balance between the demands of short-term performance and long-term strategic sustainability using growth strategies.


Unit 4 Integration and Diversification Growth Strategies

11. (x 1) What do you understand by mergers and acquisitions ? Why do organizations go for mergers and acquisitions ? Explain.
    (x 1) Describe the steps involved in Merger and Acquisition deals.

12. (x 1) What do you understand by diversification ? Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of diversification.

13. (x 1) How do businesses handle the challenges of revenue management and strategic pricing to increase market share and profitability ? Discuss.


Unit 5 Strategic Alliances

14. (x 1) What are the factors which promote the rise of strategic alliances ? Explain.

15. (x 1) Elaborate on the costs and the risks associated with strategic alliances.
    (x 1) List and explain different types of strategic alliances.

16. (x 1) What are the main obstacles to managing partnerships and strategic alliances, and how can businesses get past them ? Discuss.

17. (x 1) Can business successfully include CSR and sustainability into their strategic management procedures ? Justify giving examples.


Unit 6 Internationalization Process

18. (x 1) Discuss the operating advantages and disadvantages of MNCs. Cite suitable examples.
    (x 1) Explain the concept of a domestic firm. What advantages and disadvantages are faced by the domestic firm as compared to a Multinational Corporation (MNC) ?

19. (x 1) Describe the Eclectic model with respect to internationalization.

20. (x 2) Why do MNCs invest in different countries / tend to invest abroad ? Explain.

21. (x 1) What is the need for continuous evaluation of internationalization as a process in any economy ? Discuss.

22. (x 1) Discuss the impact of globalization on strategic management. What are the approaches that business can adopt to remain competitive in an increasingly competitive marketplace ?


Unit 7 Evaluation of Market Risk Assessment

23. (x 1) What are the different methods used by the government to protect their business environment ?

24. (x 1) Governments in most of the countries do restrict or support international trade or transfer of resources to foreign countries. Elaborate on the statement.


Unit 8 Entry into the International Markets

25. (x 2) What are the different kinds of entry strategies ? Explain any two citing examples.

26. (x 1) What are the most important factors for businesses to think about when broadening their product and service offerings or entering new markets ? Discuss.


Unit 9 IT and Strategy

27. (x 1) Discuss the concept of e-Business. Explain different models of e-business.
    (x 1) Explain the concept of e-Business and describe the steps used in implementing the e-Business plan.

28. (x 1) Explain the different components of IT architecture. Describe the factors involved in influencing the choice of a particular IT infrastructure.

29. (x 1) What is the role of Information Technology (IT) in implementing a strategy ? Discuss with the help of examples.


Unit 10 Technology and R & D

30. (x 1) What are the different steps involved in developing R & D strategy of any organization ? Explain with the help of examples.

31. (x 1) Describe the features of technology package that can be used in implementing strategic management.

32. [Short Note] (x 1) Competitive Strategy and Competitiveness


Unit 11 Knowledge Management

33. (x 1) Discuss and explain the basics of a Knowledge Management Framework (KMS) of an organization.
    (x 1) Explain the different steps involved in a Knowledge Management Framework.

34. (x 1) Describe the trends and challenges of knowledge management in an organization.

35. (x 1) Write a brief note on the Knowledge Management (KM) initiatives in Indian Organizations.


Unit 12 Innovation

36. (x 1) How are creative organizations built ? Explain in your own words with the help of examples.

37. (x 1) What is innovation ? Explain innovation with respect to the success of an organization.
    (x 1) How can businesses use innovation and technology to their advantage to obtain a competitive edge in the market ? Explain with the help of examples.

38. (x 1) What are the different techniques which can be adopted to enhance the creativity and promote innovation in organizations ? Discuss.
