[20 Marks each]

Unit 1 Rural Markets in India

1.  (x 1) Discuss the ways in which rural consumers display distinct consumption traits compared to urban consumers, and explain how these differences impact marketing planning for consumer durables (refrigerators, TVs) and readymade clothes.

2.  (x 2) Discuss the technological advances in India which have helped rural marketing, and the impact of technology on rural markets.
    [Short Note] The impact of technology on rural marketing


Unit 2 Understanding Rural Environment: I

3.  (x 1) What are some of the strategic factors important for marketers to keep in mind about the rural environment when they plan to enter rural markets ? Discuss.


Unit 3 Understanding Rural Environment: II

*(No direct questions mapped; environmental factors are integrated with Unit 2)*


Unit 4 Rural Buying Behaviour and Influencing Factors

4.  (x 1) Critically comment upon the influence of factors like culture, social class, and reference groups on the buying behaviour of rural consumers, using suitable examples.
    [Short Note] Role of reference groups in the context of rural markets.
    [Short Note] Influence of culture in rural buying behaviour.


Unit 5 Trends in Consumer Behaviour

5.  (x 1) Explain how developments like financial inclusion and community empowerment have impacted rural consumption.
    [Short Note] Trends in rural consumption patterns.


Unit 6 Rural Marketing Research

6.  (x 1) Is the qualitative research approach more suitable in the rural context as against the survey method ? Describe the different qualitative research tools and techniques used in rural marketing research.
    [Short Note] Rural marketing research.


Unit 7 Case Study

*(No direct questions mapped)*


Unit 8 Product and Service Decisions

7.  (x 2) Explain the main factors that affect the rate of adoption of innovation among rural consumers. How would these apply to services like life insurance, digital payment wallets, and healthcare ?

8.  (x 1) A large corporate chain hospital is planning to set up branch hospitals in some villages around its headquarters. What inputs on adopter categories and adoption behaviour will they need to consider in their service planning ?

9.  (x 1) Discuss the packaging adaptations that can be done when consumer products are specifically targeted at rural markets.

10. (x 2) How would you, as a marketer, address the menace of spurious products proliferating in rural markets ? Suggest appropriate measures.
    [Short Note] Menace of spurious products.

11. [Short Note] (x 1) Product differentiation for rural markets


Unit 9 Pricing Decisions

12. (x 1) Explain the concept of promotional pricing in the context of rural markets.

13. (x 1) Explain the concept of competitive pricing in the context of rural markets.

14. [Short Note] (x 1) Sales promotion methods for rural markets

15. (x 1) [Case Study] Suggest distribution and pricing strategies for a pioneering automobile company (MSL) looking to expand its passenger SUV portfolio into rural markets.


Unit 10 Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC) for Rural Markets

16. (x 1) [Case Study] Recommend a promotion and digital media strategy for passenger vehicle SUV expansion in rural markets.

17. (x 1) [Case Study] For a digital farming/smart irrigation product launch (like Netafim's Flexnet flexible pipes), advise the company on a national rural promotion plan, campaign objectives, multilingual themes, media selection, and measures to gauge advertising effectiveness.

18. [Short Note] (x 1) Significance of Melas and Haats for rural communication


Unit 11 Case Study

*(No direct questions mapped)*


Unit 12 Physical Infrastructure and Dynamics of Distribution

19. (x 1) Discuss the implications of seasonal demand on physical distribution in rural markets with examples.


Unit 13 Participants in the Rural Distribution Process

20. (x 1) Who are the participants in the rural distribution process, and what is the power dynamics prevalent among these participants ?

21. (x 1) How would you assess and monitor the performance of your rural channel members in the case of distributing household consumer durables like gas burners or pressure cookers ? Justify your choices.

22. [Short Note] (x 1) Hierarchy of intermediaries in rural markets


Unit 14 Retailing and Distribution Strategy

*(No direct questions mapped; retailing/distribution concepts are integrated into Units 12, 13, and 15)*


Unit 15 Case Study

23. (x 1) [Case Study] HUL Project Shakti: Discuss the problems and opportunities in having Self-Help Groups (SHGs) as distributors, and make suggestions to the company based on the role of SHGs / Shakti Ammas in rural distribution.
