[20 Marks each]

Unit 1 Basic Concepts of Product and Product Planning

1.  (x 2) What is a Product ? Explain the levels of product with examples.
    (x 1) Explain product levels. Give an example of each level.
    (x 1) Explain 'Core Product' with an example.

2.  (x 1) Discuss the meaning and scope of the Product Management function. Explain how a product can be classified.

3.  (x 1) How is a product different from a brand ?

4.  (x 1) Give a classification of Consumer and Industrial Goods.
    [Short Note] Classification of Consumer Goods

5.  [Short Note] (x 1) Services Differentiation

6.  (x 1) Explain 'Labelling' with an example.


Unit 2 Product Life Cycle (PLC)

7.  (x 1) Discuss the various stages that a product or a brand goes through in its life-cycle. Illustrate with a consumer durable of your choice.

8.  (x 1) What is the Product Life Cycle (PLC) ? How does it guide the marketer in making marketing strategy ? Discuss the PLC stages, characteristics, and strategies used at different stages.
    [Short Note] Strategies in Growth Stage of PLC

9.  (x 1) Explain the Diffusion of Innovation theory given by Rogers. Explain the adopter categories with examples.

10. (x 1) [Case Study] Cell phones are a part of our everyday lives. At what stage of the PLC do you think they are ? What are marketers doing to sustain them in the future using what product strategy ?


Unit 3 Product Line Decisions

11. (x 1) Discuss the key factors that marketers should consider in pursuing product line extensions. Explain using a passenger car company (e.g., Maruti Suzuki) to explain these factors.
    [Short Note] Product line extensions and stretching decision
    [Short Note] Line stretching

12. (x 1) Explain your understanding of product line and product mix in an FMCG company of your choice.

13. (x 1) What are the various decisions that a marketer has to take with respect to a product line ? Illustrate with examples.

14. (x 1) What are Product Line Extensions ? Explain the basis for product line extension along with its advantages and disadvantages.

15. (x 1) [Case Study] Ascertain the product lines of any three top detergent companies in India. Suggest their product line and in that which products they should drop and why ?


Unit 4 Product Portfolio

16. (x 1) What basic considerations have to be kept in mind while balancing a product portfolio ? Explain the methodology of constructing the BCG matrix.
    [Short Note] BCG matrix for product portfolio analysis

17. (x 2) How does the GE Planning Grid (or McKinsey Matrix) differ from the BCG Matrix in Portfolio Analysis ? Discuss how to use GE Grid for Product Portfolio Analysis.

18. [Short Note] (x 1) PIMS Model

19. [Short Note] (x 1) Utility of Display Matrices


Unit 5 Organizing for New Product Developmen

20. (x 1) Define what constitutes a new product and explain how the responsibility for New Product Development is assigned at the corporate level.


Unit 6 Generation, Screening and Development of New Product Ideas

21. (x 1) Discuss the possible situations where generation of new product ideas occurs both internal and external to the firm.
    [Short Note] (x 2) Generation of New Product Ideas / Sources of new product ideas
    (x 1) Explain 'Idea Generation' or 'Brainstorming' with examples.

22. (x 2) Describe the important criteria used to screen new product ideas. How would you use a product profile rating for a new product idea ? Illustrate.


Unit 7 Concept Development Testing and Physical Development of the Product

23. (x 1) What are the different steps involved in the New Product Development process ? Discuss each step and give an appropriate example.

24. (x 1) Select any product category (e.g., oral care) and develop at least three concepts that you think will be feasible. Explain concept development and testing in their context.
    [Short Note] Concept development and Testing in New Product Development process

25. [Short Note] (x 1) Market Testing


Unit 8 New Product Launch

26. (x 1) Why do new product launches often fail ? Discuss.

27. (x 1) Discuss the various pricing strategies that are available for the marketers of any new product.
    (x 1) Explain 'Skimming Pricing Strategy' with an example.

28. (x 1) [Case Study] Suggest a pricing mechanism for the following new products scheduled for launch: (a) Coconut water in tetra pack, (b) Electric Bike.

29. [Short Note] (x 1) Distribution of the new products


Unit 9 Brand Concepts and Evolution

30. (x 1) What is branding ? Elaborate on the major functions that a brand offers to its customers.

31. (x 2) What are the various brand decisions a firm has to take as a part of branding policy ? Discuss the brand name selection process with examples (e.g., for a smart watch offered by an Indian company).
    [Short Note] Brand Name Selection Process
    (x 1) Explain 'Brand Name' or 'Trademark/Logo' with an example.

32. (x 1) [Case Study] Suggest a brand name for a holiday resort honeymoon package conceived and targeted for newly married urban couples. Give reasons.

33. [Short Note] (x 1) Family Branding

34. [Short Note] (x 1) Advantages of Branding the Commodities

35. (x 1) [Case Study] Pick the strongest brand in FMCG, Financial Services, and Consumer Electronics. Based on your experience, identify the factors that have contributed to this market position for each brand.


Unit 10 Brand Equity

36. (x 3) Explain the concept of brand equity. Discuss how and why brand equity is created and the critical components of brand equity that create value for the firm.
    [Short Note] Developing Brand Equity

37. (x 1) What kind of role does the consumer play in building a brand ? Give examples.

38. (x 1) [Case Study] Explain how the Indian Ayurvedic brand Patanjali has been able to carve a space for itself in the FMCG market by establishing its Brand Identity and Brand Equity.

39. [Short Note] (x 1) David Aaker model of Building Brand Equity

40. [Short Note] (x 1) Customer Based Brand Equity (CBBE)

41. [Short Note] (x 1) Composite Measure of Brand Equity


Unit 11 Brand Building Blocks: Identify, Image and Positioning

42. (x 1) What options of different appeals can a marketer use to reinforce a strong and positive perception for the purpose of building a strong brand image among its customers ? Explain.
    (x 1) Explain 'Brand Image' with an example.

43. (x 1) List the brand building blocks and explain how important these blocks are in the consumer decision-making process.

44. (x 1) On what criteria is a brand positioned to the target market ? Discuss.
    [Short Note] (x 2) Brand positioning / Brand Positioning
    [Short Note] (x 1) Brand Identity
    [Short Note] (x 1) Perceived Quality


Unit 12 Brand Architecture and Brand Extension

45. (x 1) What is Brand Extension ? Discuss the types of brand extensions. Give examples. Discuss the six-step process of brand extension.
    [Short Note] Advantages of Brand Extension

46. (x 1) [Case Study] Analyze the brand extension strategy of Tata e-car. What are the steps involved in launching a brand extension ?

47. (x 1) What is brand architecture ? Explain the various steps involved in developing brand architecture.
    [Short Note] Developing brand architecture strategy

48. (x 1) What is brand hierarchy ? Comment on the different levels of brand hierarchy which are accessible for a marketer.
    [Short Note] Brand hierarchies

49. [Short Note] (x 2) Corporate branding / Corporate Branding


Unit 13 Enhancing Brand Equity

50. [Short Note] (x 1) Levers for enhancing brand equity
    (x 1) Explain 'Brand Associations' with an example.


Unit 14 Managing Brands over Time and Geographies

51. (x 1) Discuss the underlying principles for brands expanding to international markets.

52. [Short Note] (x 1) Standardised approach to global branding-customization vs standardization, issues and advantages
    [Short Note] Factors Driving Customization

53. [Short Note] (x 1) Levers for sustaining Brand value


Unit 15 Measuring Brand Equity

54. (x 2) Comment on the need for brand valuation and the methods available for a marketer (e.g., why Reliance paid a heavy price in 2017 to acquire Hamley's and how to estimate brand value).
    (x 1) Explain 'Brand Valuation' or 'Brand Asset Valuator' with an example.
