[20 Marks each]

Unit 1 Consumer Behaviour- Nature, Scope, Models and Applications

1.  (x 1) What are the marketing applications of consumer behaviour ? Discuss.

2.  (x 2) Explain online consumer behaviour with the help of the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM). Illustrate with an example of online shopping of consumer products.
    [Short Note] Technology acceptance model

3.  (x 2) [Case Study / Question] How is the online buying process different from shopping at a physical store ? Explain.

4.  [Short Note] (x 2) Engel-Kollat-Blackwell (EKB) Model


Unit 2 Consumer Behaviour and Life-style Marketing

5.  (x 2) What are the applications of lifestyle marketing in consumer behaviour ? Design a marketing strategy based on the VALS framework for a home decor retailer / position a product to a specific lifestyle.

6.  (x 1) [Case Study] Do customers' social classes and life cycle stages have an effect on their online purchasing behaviour ? Discuss.

7.  [Short Note] (x 1) VALS System of classification


Unit 3 Organisational Buying Behaviour

8.  (x 1) What are the phases in the Organizational Buying Behaviour Decision Process ?

9.  (x 1) Discuss the major influences on Organizational Buying Behaviour. How is it different from the individual purchase of CCTV cameras ?

10. [Short Note] (x 1) Fisher's model of Organizational Buying Behaviour

11. [Short Note] (x 1) Difference between consumer and industrial buying behaviour


Unit 4 Perceptions

12. (x 1) 'Selective perception relates to a small amount of the information being processed by consumers.' Discuss this statement with suitable examples.

13. (x 1) What is meant by consumer perception ? Discuss the factors of perception which help in the formation of image in the minds of consumers. Explain with an example.

14. (x 1) Illustrate the stages of perception with a suitable example. Does subliminal perception work ? Why or why not ?

15. (x 1) [Case Study] How does advertising influence perceptions ? Explain by taking the example of Patanjali Dantkanti Toothpaste and suggest an alternate strategy to influence perceptions favorably.

16. (x 1) [Case Study] Analyze how customers' perceptions are impacted by extended product offerings (e.g., Raymond's MoU with Khadi Commission). Comment on the repositioning strategy of Khadi under the Raymond brand from the consumer's point of view.

17. [Short Note] (x 1) Absolute vs. Differential Threshold

18. [Short Note] (x 1) Perceptions


Unit 5 Learning and Memory

19. (x 1) Define and discuss learning from a marketing point of view. What are the essential features of the classical learning approach ?

20. (x 1) How is learning undertaken as a part of information processing ? Discuss the different stages of learning with examples.

21. (x 1) Explain 'Information Processing' and how it differs from learning. Should marketers target short-term memory or long-term memory when designing campaigns ? How are the two related ?

22. [Short Note] (x 1) Types of reinforcement to enhance learning


Unit 6 Attitude and Attitude Change

23. (x 2) What is meant by consumer attitude ? How do you justify the relevance of studying consumer attitudes for marketing ? Explain with an example of a product or service.
    (x 1) How can the attitude toward products for men's skin care be measured ?

24. [Short Note] (x 1) Behavioural Intention (BI) model


Unit 7 Personality and Self-concept

*(No direct questions mapped)*


Unit 8 Consumer Motivation and Involvement

25. (x 2) Define Motivation. Why is it important to study consumer motivation/motives for marketers ? Describe the three types of motivational conflicts with examples.

26. (x 1) Define the term consumer motive. Do psychogenic motives have superiority over physiological ones ? Use examples to justify.

27. (x 1) Critically analyze Maslow's Need Theory of Motivation. What are the major limitations of this theory ?

28. (x 1) In case a company is planning to launch a new product, how is the concept of 'motivation' relevant ? Discuss.

29. (x 1) [Case Study] Vending Machines (Motivation): Discuss if a company will succeed in selling other products (cigarettes, soaps, cold drinks) along with tea/coffee through vending machines, and how the company can motivate consumers to buy these products using card systems instead of cash.

30. [Short Note] (x 2) Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs


Unit 9 Reference Group Influence and Group Dynamics

31. (x 1) What factors are important in reference group influence ? Suggest any two products where reference groups have a strong influence (both positive and negative) on consumer buying decisions.

32. [Short Note] (x 3) Reference groups / Types of reference groups and influence exerted / Role of reference groups in CDM (Consumer Decision Making).

33. [Short Note] (x 1) Dynamics of the opinion leadership

34. [Short Note] (x 1) Social class and consumer behavior

35. [Short Note] (x 1) External environment and group influences


Unit 10 Family Buying Influences, Family Life Cycle and Buying Roles

36. (x 1) [Case Study] Family Influences (Washing Machines): Explain how group/family interaction helps buyers in their decision-making process (automatic vs. semi-automatic choices, and the influence of children). What should be the role of the marketer regarding advertisement, promotion, persuasion and closing the sales ?

37. (x 1) How will an urban consumer differ from a rural consumer in similar purchase needs ? Are the differences really substantial ?

38. [Short Note] (x 1) Implications of Family Decision-Making for Marketing Strategy

39. [Short Note] (x 2) Family Life Cycle stages / The family life cycle stages


Unit 11 Culture and Sub-culture Influences

40. (x 1) How are cultural values relevant to a marketing practitioner ? Discuss.

41. [Short Note] (x 1) Cross cultural understanding of consumer behaviour

42. [Short Note] (x 1) Characteristics of culture

43. [Short Note] (x 1) Role of culture and subculture in CDM (Consumer Decision Making)


Unit 12 Problem Recognition and Information Search Behaviour

44. (x 2) How does the problem recognition stage vary between a low involvement and a high involvement purchase ? How can marketers benefit from these variations ?

45. [Short Note] (x 1) Factors related to Information search


Unit 13 Information Processing

46. [Short Note] (x 1) Concept of Information Processing


Unit 14 Alternative Evaluation

47. (x 1) Explain in detail the consumer decision-making process with the help of a flow diagram.


Unit 15 Purchase Process and Post Purchase Behaviour

48. (x 1) How is the concept of positioning relevant for launching a new product ? Discuss.

49. (x 1) [Case Study] Glow Fair male skin care products: Discuss what factors affect the purchase of male skin care products by consumers when they actively seek products that complement skin tone or appearance.
