[20 Marks each]

Unit 1 Business Ethics: An Overview

1.  (x 2) Explain the relevance/importance of business/corporate ethics in today's world/modern society. How is Business Ethics different from Law ? Discuss with examples.

2.  (x 1) 'Business ethics is an oxymoron.' Justify the statement with examples.

3.  (x 1) Do you agree that global expansion of business has hastened consumer consciousness movement ? Explain.


Unit 2 Concepts and Theories of Business Ethics

4.  (x 1) Critically analyze the following theories of ethics: (a) Kantian Ethics, (b) Utilitarianism theory of Ethics.

5.  (x 1) Discuss the consequential ethical theories with examples in the context of ethical decision-making from a managerial perspective.

6.  (x 1) Discuss the contemporary approaches to business ethics. Explain with the help of a diagrammatic representation.

7.  (x 2) Is ethical theory of any use / does it apply to actual managerial decision-making situations ? Discuss by citing instances from modern corporate/business practices to illustrate your views.


Unit 3 Ethical Dilemmas

8.  (x 2) What is an ethical navigation wheel ? Explain with the help of a diagram the elements in the navigation wheel / Kidder's nine step check points to tide over the complexities of ethical decision-making.

9.  (x 1) Discuss with relevant examples how one can overcome ethical dilemmas when confronted with ethical challenges in one's daily life.


Unit 4 Ethics in Business

10. (x 2) Discuss the individual factors in business ethics and leadership concerning the organizational level decision-making. Can individual factors lead to unethical conduct in the workplace ? Explain.

11. (x 1) Discuss briefly the ethics at workplace and 'Moral Muteness' in the context of organisational wrongdoing with the help of any corporate scam/scandal.

12. (x 2) What are the ethical issues in corporate lobbying and the 'revolving door' phenomena in a government-business relationship ? State some organizational factors in ethical decision-making.


Unit 5 CSR: An Overview

13. (x 2) Explain how stakeholders have emerged as strong drivers of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).

14. (x 1) Why responsibility to its stakeholders is the fundamental principle of business ethics and corporate social responsibility ? Explain.


Unit 6 Business Strategy in CSR

15. (x 2) Discuss / Briefly explain the different approaches of business strategy for CSR.

16. (x 1) Socially Responsible Investments demonstrate a business strategy that has a huge social impact. Elaborate with examples.


Unit 7 CSR in Global Context

17. (x 2) Describe the prevalent / dominant forms of social activism and Corporate Social Responsibility.

18. (x 1) Why is corporate social responsibility concerned with supply chain management especially the global supply chain ? Discuss with the help of examples.


Unit 8 Business Ethics and CSR: Linkages

19. (x 1) Elucidate the benefits that companies have with the ethical code of conduct and CSR.


Unit 9 CSR in Indian Context

20. (x 3) Discuss the different phases of development of CSR in India. Briefly explain the models/trends/practices of CSR operating in India.

21. (x 1) Discuss some of the CSR initiatives of Indian companies.


Unit 10 CSR Legislation and Policy Guidelines

22. (x 1) Discuss the applicability of CSR provisions and the activities listed under Schedule VII.

23. (x 1) Discuss the emerging trends and practices that CSR in India is expected to witness.

24. (x 1) What are the methods of implementing CSR activities as per the Companies (CSR Policy) Amendment Rules ? Explain.

25. (x 1) What are the essential components of a CSR and sustainability policy ? Also discuss the benefit of social audits.

26. (x 1) Discuss some CSR activities that companies undertake which could be related to SDGs. Also briefly state the need and scope of CSR Audit.


Unit 11 CSR in Public Sector Units (PSUs)

27. (x 1) Discuss the guidelines issued by the government to promote CSR practice by public sector enterprises.

28. (x 1) Discuss the framework suggested by national voluntary guidelines on social, environmental and economic responsibilities of the business, 2011.

29. (x 1) What are the global guidelines to promote CSR practice ? Discuss.


Unit 12 CSR Reporting Process & Auditing

30. (x 3) What is the process of CSR Reporting ? Discuss/Explain the methods, tools and techniques of CSR and sustainable reporting with suitable examples.


Unit 13 Roles and Responsibilities of CSR Department

31. (x 1) How can tax deductions for CSR expenditure be claimed ? Discuss.


Unit 14 CSR and Sustainable Development

32. (x 1) What are the key challenges facing sustainable development ? Explain.

33. (x 1) Discuss the importance and relevance of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Is CSR important for sustainable development ? Discuss.

34. (x 1) What is the role of ethics in sustainable development ? Do companies follow unethical practices ? Discuss.

35. (x 1) Discuss the Triple Bottomline Approach of CSR. Explain how does it lead to sustainable development.

36. (x 1) 'Corporate social responsibility is an alternative to government setting rules and regulations.' Explain with relevant examples how government is encouraging business to adopt CSR practices.
